From about mid-January this year I have been sick. It started out as a cold and moved around the body, one week just a persistent cough and the next it was sinus congestion and pressure. Then an earache, then back to the chest and around again. I didn't go to the doctor - my doctor doesn't give out antibiotics for this kind of thing because it has no effect on the viral cause. Why pay for a consultation when only your own body can sort it out?  
 I nearly got better several times but each time I would feel good, do a day in the garden and get tired, then be back to square one the next day. Total rest would have been great but when you are responsible for taking care of the house it isn't always an option. Everyone at work more or less got used to me coughing. People warned me I would get pneumonia if this continued but I didn't take that very seriously, only old people get that.  
 Then last Wednesday I woke up and just couldn't go to work. The dreams are strange with a fever. I have industrial-themed dreams where some process or operation is repeating with great noise and huge scale. I couldn't balance and it was an effort just to get in the shower. The doctor said I probably had pneumonia and gave me Roxythromycin to take. Feeling as sick as I did I took it seriously and stayed in bed after that, only sleeping and watching TV. No internet. My birthday came and went and I didn't want to know, I couldn't eat or even talk much.  
 That Sunday evening my parents came to visit and I got out of bed. I didn't think I was shaking that much but apparently I was shivering, so I was taken off to a weekend clinic where the doctor said to head straight for hospital. At Cabrini Private they didn't take too long to see me but then I was stuck in the ER cubicle for a few hours before moving to a ward. While there I had a cannula inserted into my hand and started the antibiotics.  
 That night was about the worst fever I have ever experienced. Twice I woke on the ward and had to ask for a new gown and new sheets. My head was like a fountain of sweat. Strange dreams again, of people who ran across a huge grid as living pointers to data in some huge machine my brain never came up with a purpose for.  
 First thing in the morning the nurses made me get out of bed and sit up in a big chair, they even had me walking around the ward pushing my IV pump ahead of me. What I didn't know was that lying down is a bad thing for pneumonia, but I had been doing it for days. Maybe if my GP had told me that I would have made a recovery without going to hospital?  
 The IV drugs sorted out the infection very quickly. Each day I had the same thing, a large syringe of a yellow antibiotic pushed straight into the cannula and a bag of clear antibiotic through the IV pump. I don't think my bacteria was cultured and identified as the infection responded well to these broad-spectrum drugs. On Monday I felt extremely rough, on Tuesday I was a lot better and thinking about home, on Wednesday I was ready to leave. On Wednesday I did go home with a ten-day course of two kinds of oral antibiotics - I can't even have beer until that's all over.  
 There's no sleep in hospital unless you have a private room and even then a nurse will be in to do observations every couple of hours. I was in a four-bed ward as I have been on nearly every other hospital visit. The other guys were about thirty years older than me and while nobody snored everyone had IV pumps that had alarms ringing every hour or so, lights are on and off all the time, and on one bad night the man next to me had chest pains resulting in visits from five doctors in the small hours of the night. I knew I was going to get better but they didn't necessarily. I never felt like I wasn't going to come out of there but I did come away with an appreciation of how fragile we are, I would not have had to be much sicker to be very seriously worried.  
 At home my lungs have felt clear and I have had no fever, but pleurisy is ongoing and is perhaps worse than the pneumonia. The pleura is the lining surrounding the lungs and when it becomes inflamed that's pleurisy, a common counterpart to pneumonia. The best way I can describe it is that when you breathe it feels like being stabbed. The worst pains have been with the sudden intake of breath that comes with yawning. It means I can't lie on my side at the moment and I have to take Ibuprofen regularly. It does cut the pain a little but more importantly will clear up the inflammation, paracetemol + codeine is masking the pain so I can sleep.  
 My fitness is very low now. Lung capacity is reduced following pneumonia and it will take months to get back to the point where I can ride the round 30km to work each day. Just walking around the house sees me out of breath and sweating, but that's what I have to keep doing to build up fitness again. This Tuesday back at work I'll need to walk a few city blocks and I'm going to have to take that very easy.  
 Financially it wasn't pleasant. The ER doctor sent a bill for several hundred dollars for an "extended consutation". I talked to him for five minutes total. I heard him talking to the specialist about me for five mintes too, he must have spent a lot of time on me I don't know about. Each day in the hospital cost hundreds. The medicine cost more hundreds. The lung specialist hasn't sent his bill yet but I don't expect it to be small. On top of all that I'm out of sick leave, so no pay either.  
 What are the lessons from this?

*   Don't push yourself too hard when sick, nothing beats rest.
*   I was right not to see a doctor until the fever hit, they all said they could not have helped.
*   if you get pneumonia you sit up, you don't lie down or sleep all day.
*   you can't possibly thank nurses enough. They get paid far too little.
*   while this was expensive it would have been orders of magnitude higher in a country without universal health care. Look after Medicare, be proud of it.
*   Next time I'm going to a public hospital. I've got no reason to think the staff will be any different and my health insurance covers so little as to be useless - its only purpose is to avoid the extra tax imposed on anyone without private health insurance. John Howard introduced this to prop up the failing private health insurance industry years ago. Of course private health premiums rose by just a little less than the tax penalty very soon after he did that.